## SPRINT 1

### Day 0

#### Copied files from download
copy files (using terminal)
cp -i sourceFILE destinationFILE
    cp - copy command
    -i flag - interactive, prevents overwrites if name of destination is already present, otherwise it will not prompt and overwrite the destination

cp -i hello.txt EmailJohnWhite.txt

cp -R sourceFOLDER destinationFOLDER
    -R copy folder structure from one location to another

cp -R 01\ -\ JavaScript\ Drum\ Kit/ ../01-DrumKit

#### Organised reading material
Converted  the chapters of [YDKJS Up and Coming](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/tree/master/up%20%26%20going) into audio.  I used the standard Alex voice as the pronunciation is better than Moira.

#### First Listen to audio

ALT + COMMAND + I to open browser developer console on mac.

console.log(); print to browser console
alert(); print to browser popup message box, use quotes to display string
`warning = alert("Leave Here fran, Or you will learn too much");`
prompt(); request input via popup input message box, use quotes to display string
`greeting = prompt("hello fran");`

Converting between types @ 18:40

number types can be rounded down using **.toFixed()** function

**var** declare a variable (result may change later in program), lowercase underscore separated words
`var bank_balance = 302.11;`

**const** declare a constant (result will never change in program), UPPERCASE, underscore separated words
`const ACCOUNT_NUMBER = 302.11;`

use curly braces to designate a code block, a set of related statements that should execute as a whole.

### Day 1

I repeated the code to print amount in the function section, and added a prompt to take input from the user.  When i used the prompt dialog i kept receiving error messages

Uncaught TypeError: amount.toFixed is not a function
    at formatAmount (<anonymous>:5:22)
    at <anonymous>:10:10

Initially I wasnt declaring amount as a variable, updating this didnt fix it.  Looking at the error message again, The printAmount function worked, the formatAmount function didnt.  The difference was the amount variable.  I explicitly cast the contents of the prompt after receiving it to a number format and the issue was resolved.

    function printAmount(amt) {
        console.log(amt.toFixed(2));
    }
    function formatAmount() {
        return "$" + amount.toFixed(2);
    }
    var amount = 0.00;
    amount = prompt("Please enter a dollar amount you want to spend");
    amount = Number(amount);
    printAmount(amount * 2);
    amount = formatAmount();
    console.log(amount);


    7294.80
    $3647.40


scope of variables is restricted to the boundary of the brackets they are defined inside.

1. variables defined at the root of the file, ie outside brackets are available everywhere.
2. statements in a parent set of brackets cannot access variables in a child set of brackets.
3. statements in a child of of brackets can access variables in a parent set of brackets.


create repo, record git commands fro remote command line repo creation










#### Changes to my process

More than one person will be committing code, To make it easier to search the repository for a persons project, I suggest we use branches to identify overall work, followed by tags to reference specific units of work.  **E.g.** on branch fran, after finishing Project 1 drum kit and documenting all my learnings, I will have Tag Project-1-Drum-Kit.  I liked the comparison of Branches vs Tags, mutable references vs immutable references in the following article.  [Branches vs Tags](http://alblue.bandlem.com/2011/04/git-tip-of-week-tags.html)

I was using the browser (chrome) for initially running my javascript examples but i found that it wasnt great.  Initially I was looking at running it via node on command line, but I found that I could setup sublime to build and run a file that was open and display the result at the bottom of the editor. [Sublime Text Build System](https://pawelgrzybek.com/javascript-console-in-sublime-text/)

1. Atom can run javascript in editor but it makes my mac turn into Hairdryer.
2. Why? Syntax highlighting, more forgiving to edit, I believe larger text size in sublime is better to read than small text in chrome dev console
3. Similar instructions for windows


#### Blog Posts to read

The following was a an article of browser developer tools [teamtreehouse blog entry](http://blog.teamtreehouse.com/mastering-developer-tools-console).

1.
2.
3.
4.

[MDN expressions and operators](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Expressions_and_Operators)

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
